New blog post for review: SQL Server Deployment Options for Octopus D… (#252)
OctopusDeploy/blog: blog/2020-03/sql-server-deployment-options-for-octopus-deploy/index.md

Certainly, ORMs are popular in the .NET community, but approach with caution. And, with my DevOps hat on, make sure you remember to optimize for the whole value stream, rather than an individual developer or team/silo, at the expense of downstream workers.

**Best thing:** ORMs.

**Worst thing:** ORMs.

## Flyway

**Type:** Migration-based

[Flyway](https://flywaydb.org/) is an open source, migrations-based tool. Originally written by [Axel Fontaine](https://twitter.com/axelfontaine), it was [recently acquired by Redgate](https://tech.eu/brief/redgate-acquires-flyway-for-10-million/). While it’s not the most widely used tool for SQL Server, it’s hugely popular in the open source community.

It’s a Java application, which might seem a little odd for a SQL Server deployment tool, but that’s because, unlike the other tools in this blog post, from the start Flyway was designed to be cross-platform. Flyway users could be running MySQL, Postgres, Oracle or any of the other of the twenty or so RDBMSs that Flyway supports. This makes it a popular choice for shops that support multiple relational databases.

> Using it is relatively simple compared to most similar tools: download, update the config file with your connection string, and drop your scripts into the SQL directory. Then open the command prompt, and enter `flyway migrate`.

Author: I'm not sure capitalising "sql" in this line is the right thing. It's refering to a directory in a flyway project called "sql", not "SQL". I appreciate that my version didn't really convey this. Perhaps using lower case "sql" with double quotes? Or maybe using a monospaced font? Or maybe we shoud say the "flyway-[version]\sql" directory? I'm open to suggestions.

Reviewer: My mistake :) I'll modify it with your second suggestion.

> Using it is relatively simple compared to most similar tools: download, update the config file with your connection string, and drop your scripts into the SQL directory. Then open the command prompt, and enter `flyway migrate`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Using it is relatively simple compared to most similar tools: download, update the config file with your connection string, and drop your scripts into the `"flyway-[version]\sql` directory. Then open the command prompt, and enter `flyway migrate`.
```

> That said, it does not have a comparison engine built in. That means it can’t generate your deployment scripts for you. You’ll need to create them by hand or with another database comparison tool.

Author: or "use a" database comparison tool.

> That said, it does not have a comparison engine built in. That means it can’t generate your deployment scripts for you. You’ll need to create them by hand or with another database comparison tool.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
That said, it does not have a comparison engine built-in. That means it can’t generate your deployment scripts for you. You’ll need to create them by hand or use a database comparison tool.
```
